docs: add content for module 3 (#5)
asyncapi/learning-paths: 100-level-AsyncAPI-Intro/step2.md

> ## Understanding AsyncAPI Components through Chan and Eve's Programming Session

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Understanding AsyncAPI components 
```

> - **Info (Metadata about the API):**
> 
> Just as the name tag on Chan's spaceship provides essential details like the spaceship's name and model, the `info` section in AsyncAPI serves a similar purpose. It provides crucial information about the API, such as the title, version, and description. This metadata helps developers understand the basic details of the API they're working with.
> 
> ```yml
> asyncapi: '3.0.0'
> info:
>   title: Space Communication API
>   version: '1.0.0'
>   description: API for communication between Chan's spaceship and Capuccinova
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Info**

Just as the name tag on Chan's spaceship provides essential details like the spaceship's name and model, the `info` section in AsyncAPI serves a similar purpose. It provides crucial information about the API, such as the title, version, and description. The `info` metadata helps developers understand the basic API details they're working with.

```yml
asyncapi: '3.0.0'
info:
  title: Space Communication API
  version: '1.0.0'
  description: API for communication between Chan's spaceship and Capuccinova
```
```

> - **Servers (Communication servers in the API):**
> 
> Imagine that Chan's spaceship communicates with Eve on Capuccinova through various servers. In AsyncAPI, the `servers` section describes the servers our API will communicate with, including their hosts, protocols, and descriptions.
> 
> ```yml
> servers:
>   production:
>     host: space.mosquitto.org
>     protocol: mqtt
>     description: Production server for space communication
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Servers**

Imagine that Chan's spaceship communicates with Eve on Capuccinova through various servers. In AsyncAPI, the `servers` section describes the servers our API will communicate with, including their hosts, protocols, and descriptions.

```yml
servers:
  production:
    host: space.mosquitto.org
    protocol: mqtt
    description: Production server for space communication
```
```

> - **Channels (Communication channels in the API):**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Channels**
```

> The spaceship's radio stations, which correspond to specific topics like communicating with Capuccinova, are simmilar to the `channels` in AsyncAPI. These channels represent paths for sending specific types of messages. Each channel uses an address, which is a template for the URI of the server, and can have variables inside curly braces.
> 
> ```yml
> channels:
>   roomidchat:
>     address: chat/{roomId}
>     messages:
>       chatMessage:
>         name: ChatMessage
>         payload:
>           type: object
>           properties:
>             userId:
>               type: string
>               description: The ID of the user who sent the message
>             message:
>               type: string
>               description: The chat message
>             spacename:
>               type: string
>               description: The unique spacename identifier for the message
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The spaceship's radio stations, which correspond to specific topics like communicating with Capuccinova, are similar to the `channels` in AsyncAPI. These channels represent paths for sending specific types of messages. Each channel uses an address, which is a template for the URL of the server, and can have variables inside curly braces.

```yml
channels:
  roomidchat:
    address: chat/{roomId}
    messages:
      chatMessage:
        name: ChatMessage
        payload:
          type: object
          properties:
            userId:
              type: string
              description: The ID of the user who sent the message
            message:
              type: string
              description: The chat message
            spacename:
              type: string
              description: The unique spacename identifier for the message
```
```

> - **Tags (Categorizing operations):**
> 
> `Tags` in AsyncAPI are like the labels on the spaceship's control panel. They help categorize different operations, making it easier for developers to understand what each part of the API does. Each tag consists of a name and an optional description.
> 
> ```yml
> tags:
>   - name: chat
>     description: Operations related to chat
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Tags**

`Tags` in AsyncAPI are like the labels on the spaceship's control panel. They help categorize different operations, making it easier to understand what each part of the API does. Each tag consists of a name and an optional description.

```yml
tags:
  - name: chat
    description: Operations related to chat
```
```

> - **Components (Reusable parts of the API):**
> 
> `Component` is like the toolbox in Chan's spaceship. It contains reusable parts like message definitions and schemas that can be used across the API. Each component is linked to a particular schema, which describes the structure of the message content.
> 
> ```yml
> components:
>   messages:
>     ChatMessage:
>       name: ChatMessage
>       title: Chat Message
>       contentType: application/json
>       payload:
>         $ref: '#/components/schemas/ChatMessagePayload'
>   schemas:
>     ChatMessagePayload:
>       type: object
>       properties:
>         userId:
>           type: string
>           description: The ID of the user who sent the message
>         message:
>           type: string
>           description: The chat message
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Components**

`Component` is like the toolbox in Chan's spaceship. It contains reusable parts like message definitions and schemas that can be used across the API. Each component is linked to a particular schema, which describes the structure of the message content.

```yml
components:
  messages:
    ChatMessage:
      name: ChatMessage
      title: Chat Message
      contentType: application/json
      payload:
        $ref: '#/components/schemas/ChatMessagePayload'
  schemas:
    ChatMessagePayload:
      type: object
      properties:
        userId:
          type: string
          description: The ID of the user who sent the message
        message:
          type: string
          description: The chat message
```
```

> ## Programming Operations, Messages, and Schemas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Operations, messages, and schemas
```

> - **Operations (Defined actions within channels):**
> 
> `Operations` in AsyncAPI are like the instructions for the spaceship. They define what actions can be performed within each channel, such as sending or receiving messages. Each operation is associated with a message and a schema.
> 
> ```yml
> operations:
>   sendChatMessage:
>     action: 'send'
>     summary: Send a chat message to a specific room
>     channel:
>       $ref: '#/channels/roomidchat'
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Operations**

`Operations` in AsyncAPI are like the instructions for the spaceship. They define what actions can be performed within each channel, such as sending or receiving messages. Each operation is associated with a message and a schema.

```yml
operations:
  sendChatMessage:
    action: 'send'
    summary: Send a chat message to a specific room
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/roomidchat'
```
```

> - **Messages (Content of the operations):**
> 
> `Messages` in AsyncAPI are the content exchanged during operations, just like the words Eve from Capuccinova and Chan from Brownieterra use to communicate. They describe the structure and content of the messages sent or received.
> 
> 
> ```yml
> components:
>   messages:
>     ChatMessage:
>       name: ChatMessage
>       title: Chat Message
>       contentType: application/json
>       payload:
>         $ref: '#/components/schemas/ChatMessagePayload'
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Messages**

`Messages` in AsyncAPI are the content exchanged during operations, just like the words Eve from Capuccinova and Chan from Brownieterra use to communicate. They describe the structure and content of the messages sent or received.

```yml
components:
  messages:
    ChatMessage:
      name: ChatMessage
      title: Chat Message
      contentType: application/json
      payload:
        $ref: '#/components/schemas/ChatMessagePayload'
```
```

> - **Schemas (Structure of message content):**
> 
> `Schemas` in AsyncAPI are like the blueprints for the spaceship. They define the structure of the message content, ensuring that everything fits together correctly. Each schema is associated with a component and describes the structure and content of the messages.
> 
> ```yml
> components:
>   schemas:
>     ChatMessagePayload:
>       type: object
>       properties:
>         userId:
>           type: string
>           description: The ID of the user who sent the message
>         message:
>           type: string
>           description: The chat message
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Schemas**

`Schemas` in AsyncAPI are like the blueprints for the spaceship. They define the structure of the message content, ensuring that everything fits together correctly. Each schema is associated with a component and describes the structure and content of the messages.

```yml
components:
  schemas:
    ChatMessagePayload:
      type: object
      properties:
        userId:
          type: string
          description: The ID of the user who sent the message
        message:
          type: string
          description: The chat message
```
```

---

Certainly! Here's the updated hands-on exercise, guiding you through the entire process of creating and configuring Chan's AsyncAPI document for communication with Capuccinova and beyond.

> 

Reviewer: @mhmohona This line shows clear plagiarism from chatgpt.

> ---
> 
> Certainly! Here's the updated hands-on exercise, guiding you through the entire process of creating and configuring Chan's AsyncAPI document for communication with Capuccinova and beyond.
> 
> ### Chan's Galactic Coding Adventure: Crafting the Capuccinova Connection
> 
> #### Prologue: A New Beginning in the Stars
> 
> Chan embarks on a mission to establish a sophisticated communication system with Eve on Capuccinova. With your expertise in AsyncAPI, you'll assist him in creating a robust AsyncAPI document from scratch.
> 
> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now it's time to help Chan establish a sophisticated communication system with Eve on Capuccinova. With your new expertise in AsyncAPI, you'll assist him in creating an AsyncAPI document from scratch.

```

> #### Chapter 1: Initiating the Capuccinova Communication Link

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Exercise 1: Create AsyncAPI document
```

> **Your Mission: Creating the Base AsyncAPI Document**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. **Start the Journey**: In the KillerCoda terminal, create a new file by typing `nano chan-to-capuccinova.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the KillerCoda terminal, create a new file by typing `nano chan-to-capuccinova.yaml`.
```

> 2. **Lay the Cosmic Foundations**: Enter the basic AsyncAPI structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enter the following AsyncAPI document structure:
```

   ```yaml
   asyncapi: 3.0.0
   info:
     title: Space Communication API
     version: '1.0.0'
     description: API for communication between Chan's spaceship and Capuccinova

   servers:
     production:
       host: space.mosquitto.org
       protocol: mqtt
       description: Production server for space communication

   channels:
     roomidchat:
       address: chat/{roomId}
       messages:
         chatMessage:
           name: ChatMessage
           payload:
             type: object
             properties:
               userId:
                 type: string
                 description: The ID of the user who sent the message
               message:
                 type: string
                 description: The chat message
               spacename:
                 type: string
                 description: The unique spacename identifier for the message

   operations:
     sendChatMessage:
       action: 'send'
       summary: Send a chat message to a specific room
       channel:
         $ref: '#/channels/roomidchat'
   ```

> 3. **Seal the Galactic Document**: Save (`Ctrl + O`, `Enter`) and exit Nano (`Ctrl + X`).
> 
> 4. **Inform Chan**: Let him know that the foundation for his AsyncAPI document is set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> #### Chapter 2: Expanding the Network to Brownieterra
> 
> **Your Mission: Adding a New Channel and Defining Operations for Brownieterra**
> 
> After successfully laying the groundwork for communication with Capuccinova, Chan is now eager to extend his AsyncAPI document to include a channel for Brownieterra.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Exercise 2: Add new channel and define operations**

After successfully laying the groundwork for communication with Capuccinova, Chan is eager to extend his AsyncAPI document to include a channel for Brownieterra. 
```

> 1. **Reopen the AsyncAPI Document**: Use the command `nano chan-to-capuccinova.yaml` to edit Chan's document.
> 
> 2. **Create a New Communication Channel**: Add a channel for Brownieterra. This includes specifying the channel name, its address, and parameters:
>    ```yaml
>    brownieterra-chat:
>      description: Channel for sending messages to Brownieterra
>      address: brownieterra-chat/{spacename}
>      parameters:
>        spacename:
>          description: The unique spacename identifier for Brownieterra communication
>          schema:
>            type: string
>    ```
> 
> 3. **Define Operations for the New Channel**: Under the `operations` section, specify how messages will be sent over the new Brownieterra channel. For example:
>    ```yaml
>    operations:
>      sendToBrownieterra:
>        action: send
>        summary: Send a message to Brownieterra
>        channel:
>          $ref: '#/channels/brownieterra-chat'
>    ```
> 
> 4. **Save and Exit**: After adding the new channel and defining its operations, save your changes (`Ctrl + O`, `Enter`) and exit Nano (`Ctrl + X`).
> 
> 5. **Inform Chan**: Let Chan know that the new channel for Brownieterra has been successfully added and configured in his AsyncAPI document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the command `nano chan-to-capuccinova.yaml` to edit Chan's document.
2. Add a channel for Brownieterra, specifying the channel name, its address, and parameters.
```yaml
   brownieterra-chat:
     description: Channel for sending messages to Brownieterra
     address: brownieterra-chat/{spacename}
     parameters:
       spacename:
         description: The unique spacename identifier for Brownieterra communication
         schema:
           type: string
```
3. Under the `operations` section, specify how messages will be sent over the new Brownieterra channel.
  ```yaml
   operations:
     sendToBrownieterra:
       action: send
       summary: Send a message to Brownieterra
       channel:
         $ref: '#/channels/brownieterra-chat'
  ```
```

> #### Chapter 3: Perfecting the Message Structure
> 
> **Your Mission: Enhancing Message Formats and Payloads**
> 
> Chan wants to add more details to the message payloads for more personalized communication.
> 
> 1. **Access the AsyncAPI File**: Edit `chan-to-capuccinova.yaml` in Nano.
> 
> 2. **Refine the Message Payloads**: Update the payloads to include additional properties or modify existing ones to better suit the communication needs.
> 
> 3. **Consolidate the Changes**: Save your modifications (`Ctrl + O`, `Enter`) and exit (`Ctrl + X`).
> 
> 4. **Update Chan**: Let him know that the message formats are now more detailed and well structured for both Capuccinova and Brownieterra.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This is not an exercise as no steps were added. Removing.

## Deep Dive into Various Components of AsyncAPI

In the control room of Chan's spaceship, Eve is assisting Chan in setting up the communication system using AsyncAPI. They're working together to ensure they can maintain contact even when Chan is light-years away. Eve explains the different components of AsyncAPI as they program each part.

## Understanding AsyncAPI Components through Chan and Eve's Programming Session

> 

Reviewer 2: I think you can remove these lines as I begin the module with a similar storyline, touch lightly on structure and lead to `deep dive of various components`, the rest fits in well and needs to modification for now as I see.

You can ref #9 to get a better sense of the suggestion made
